Add prerequisites to contribution guide plus some copy edits. (#33234)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/doc-contribute-docs-howto.adoc

////

> This document is maintained in the main Quarkus repository,

Reviewer: If we're going to fix this: 
```suggestion
This document is maintained in the main Quarkus repository.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

> and pull requests should be submitted there:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Issues and pull requests should be submitted there:
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

To ensure that your content shows up correctly on the link:https://quarkus.io/guides/[Quarkus documentation home page], use the following steps:

> . Decide on a [diataxis](https://quarkus.io/guides/doc-concept) content type that best fits the content that you are contributing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Decide on a xref:doc-concept.adoc[Diataxis] content type that best fits the content that you are contributing.
```

Reviewer 2: @rolfedh - Apologies. I was in markdown mode instead of Asciidoc when I made the original comment!

Author: Lol. Nice catch. I was in copy/paste/don't-think-about-it mode. Thanks for your thorough peer review!

+
TIP: To help you decide, see the content type descriptions in xref:{doc-guides}/doc-reference.adoc#titles-and-headings[Titles and headings] on the "About Quarkus documentation" page.

. Go to the `src/main/asciidoc/_templates` directory, and make a copy of the relevant template for the content type you have chosen. Be sure to:
** Use the filename syntax of`<category>-<titlekeyword>-<titlekeyword>-<content-type>.adoc`. For example, `security-basic-authentication-tutorial.adoc`.
** Save the file to the `docs/src/main/asciidoc` folder in the `quarkus` repository.

. Set the minimum required header information to ensure that the content renders correctly in the website portal and on the documentation home page, as outlined in the following example:
+
[source,asciidoc]
----
[id="security-basic-authentication-howto"] <1>
= Secure a Quarkus application with basic authentication <2>
include::_attributes.adoc[] <3>
:categories: security,web <4>

> 

Reviewer: Why the extra line addition?

Author: Good question. @michelle-purcell pointed out that this blank line is necessary before the abstract.
I've added a callout that mentions it now.

<2> For information about how to create a good title for each content type, see xref:{doc-guides}/doc-reference.adoc#titles-and-headings[Titles and headings] on the "Quarkus style and content guidelines" page.
<3> The `_attributes.adoc` include is required to ensure that attributes get resolved and the table of contents is generated.
<4> Set at least one category to ensure that the content is findable on the link:https://quarkus.io/guides/[Quarkus documentation home page]. For a list of Quarkus categories, see xref:{doc-guides}/doc-reference.adoc#document-attributes-and-variables[Document attributes and variables] on the "Quarkus style and content guidelines" page.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Ensure there are no line breaks in the header section until after `:categories:` line.
====

. Add an abstract that describes the purpose of the guide.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
The first sentence of the abstract must explain the value and some benefit of the content in less than 27 words because this automatically displays on the link:https://quarkus.io/guides/[Quarkus guides homepage].
There must also be a line break before and after the abstract.
====

> . For _how-to_ and _tutorial_ topics, xref:add-prerequisites[add a "Prerequisites" section] before the "Procedure" section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

For more information about the minimum header requirements, see xref:{doc-guides}/doc-reference.adoc#document-structure[Document structure] on the "Quarkus style and content guidelines" page.

[id="add-prerequisites"]
== Add a prerequisites section

> For how-to and tutorial topics, include a prerequisites section above the procedure section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How-to and tutorial topics should include a prerequisites section just after the abstract.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

> Declaring prerequisites makes using procedures faster and easier. Include them even though they might seem obvious to knowledgeable users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Declaring prerequisites clarifies the starting place for both how-to and tutorial content.
Include them even though they might seem obvious to knowledgeable users.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks!

.An example prerequisite with callout explanations

[source,asciidoc]
----
.Prerequisites <1>

:prerequisites-time: 30 minutes <2>
include::{includes}/prerequisites.adoc[] <3>
* <an additional prerequisite> <4>

> .Procedure <5>

Author: Updated. Thanks.

> . Decide on a content type that best fits the content that you are contributing.

Reviewer 2: While you are editing this topic... I think it would be good to mention diataxis and link to the detailed concept topic on the Quarkus content types here. WDYT? Thanks :-) 

```suggestion
. Decide on a [diataxis](https://quarkus.io/guides/doc-concept) content type that best fits the content that you are contributing.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

----
.Prerequisites

:prerequisites-time: 30 minutes
include::{includes}/prerequisites.adoc[]
----

For more information about the minimum header requirements, see xref:{doc-guides}/doc-reference.adoc#document-structure[Document structure] on the "Quarkus style and content guidelines" page.

== Adding prerequisites

For how-to and tutorial topics, include a prerequisites section above the procedure.

Declaring prerequisites makes using procedures faster and easier. Include them even thought they might seem obvious to knowledgeable users.

.An example prerequisite with callout explanations

[source,asciidoc]
----
.Prerequisites <1>

:prerequisites-time: 30 minutes <2>
include::{includes}/prerequisites.adoc[] <3>
* asdfda <4>

.Procedure <5>
----
<1> Section heading for the prerequisites
<2> Optional: An attribute that modifies the prerequisites
<3> An include statement for the `prerequisites.adoc` file
<4> Optional: An additional prerequisite not covered by the attributes
<5> Section heading for the procedure

.The default prerequisites

By default, including `prerequisites.adoc` displays the following information:

[quote]
include::{includes}/prerequisites.adoc[]

> .Attributes that modify the prerequisites

Reviewer 2: Super job explaining how prereqs work in the docs @rolfedh :+1: 

Wondering whether this section should be added to the [contributing reference topic ](https://quarkus.io/guides/doc-reference)along with all the attributes that determine how content gets rendered :thinking:

Author: Good question. For now, I'd like to keep them here, where they are more likely to be reviewed and used. 
We might eventually move them there, though.

+
<1> Set the `id` value to be the same as the file name but without the extension. You can shorten this if the file name is too long.
<2> For information about how to create a good title for each content type, see xref:{doc-guides}/doc-reference.adoc#titles-and-headings[Titles and headings] on the "Quarkus style and content guidelines" page.
<3> The `_attributes.adoc` include is required to ensure that attributes get resolved, the table of contents is generated, and content renders in the website portal.
<4> Set at least one category to ensure that the content is findable on the link:https://quarkus.io/guides/[Quarkus documentation home page]. For a list of Quarkus categories, see xref:{doc-guides}/doc-reference.adoc#document-attributes-and-variables[Document attributes and variables] on the "Quarkus style and content guidelines" page.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Ensure there are no line breaks in the header section until after `:categories:` line.
====

> . Add an abstract to describe the purpose of the guide.
> [IMPORTANT]

Author: ```suggestion
. Add an abstract to describe the purpose of the guide.
+
[IMPORTANT]
```

+
<1> Set the `id` value to be the same as the file name but without the extension. You can shorten this if the file name is too long.
<2> For information about how to create a good title for each content type, see xref:{doc-guides}/doc-reference.adoc#titles-and-headings[Titles and headings] on the "Quarkus style and content guidelines" page.

> <3> The `_attributes.adoc` include is required to ensure that attributes get resolved, the table of contents is generated, and content renders in the website portal.

Reviewer 2: Item <1> and item <4> are also needed to ensure that the table of contents is generated and the content renders in the website portal. Could we move this bit up to line 44 as per my suggestion comment above and here:

```suggestion
<3> The `_attributes.adoc` include is required to ensure that attributes get resolved.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks, @michelle-purcell. In the next preview build, would you please verify that I achieved the result you were seeking?

<4> Set at least one category to ensure that the content is findable on the link:https://quarkus.io/guides/[Quarkus documentation home page]. For a list of Quarkus categories, see xref:{doc-guides}/doc-reference.adoc#document-attributes-and-variables[Document attributes and variables] on the "Quarkus style and content guidelines" page.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Ensure there are no line breaks in the header section until after `:categories:` line.
====

. Add an abstract that describes the purpose of the guide.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
The first sentence of the abstract must explain the value and some benefit of the content in less than 27 words because this automatically displays on the link:https://quarkus.io/guides/[Quarkus guides homepage].
There must also be a line break before and after the abstract.
====

> . For how-to and tutorial topics, include a set of prerequisites. For example:

Reviewer 2: I think this level of detail and example would be good to add to the guidance that's in the existing [how-to](https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/blob/main/docs/src/main/asciidoc/_templates/template-howto.adoc) and [tutorial](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/quarkusio/quarkus/main/docs/src/main/asciidoc/_templates/template-tutorial.adoc) doc templates.  

The current how-to template doesn't mention prereqs at all.

+
[source,asciidoc]
----
.Prerequisites

:prerequisites-time: 30 minutes <1>
include::{includes}/prerequisites.adoc[] <2>
----

> <1> Optional: Specifies the type of prerequisites to display, or sets a value that appears in the prerequisites. For more information about these attributes, inspect the content of the `docs/src/main/asciidoc/_includes/prerequisites.adoc` file.

Reviewer 3: Re line 81: The way the numbering of the callouts render in the document, I initially thought it was a sub-procedure as I had not noticed the corresponding number in the code snippet itself. I wonder would it be better to present this info in a slightly different way to better distinguish it from the procedure, for example, as a bulleted list under the snippet. For example, 

- **prerequisites-time: (Optional): Specifies the type of .......
-  **include**: Includes the prerequisites..... 
Just a suggestion and I know there are also other callouts in the doc.

Author: Updated. Thanks.

Author: Updated. Thank you.

https://vale.sh/docs/integrations/guide/[Vale IDE integrations] require the Vale CLI to be installed.

> Each IDE integration has its own configuration requirements. The Visual Studio Code IDE extension, for example, requires a definition of the Vale CLI path:

Reviewer 3: Minor suggestion: Should it be be "a definition for the Vale CLI path"?

Author: Updated. Thanks.

Submit your proposed changes to the core Quarkus docs by {gh-pull-requests-fork}[creating a pull request] against the `main` branch of the Quarkus repository from your own {gh-about-forks}[repository fork].

Reviews for code and documentation have different (but overlapping) participants.

> To simplify collaborative review, either isolate changes to docs in their PRs or ensure that the PR has a single, focused purpose. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To simplify collaborative review, either isolate changes to docs in separate PRs or ensure that a PR has a single focused purpose. For example:
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

- Create a single PR that adds a configuration option for an extension and updates related materials (how-to, reference) to explain the change.
- Create a single PR for related changes to a group of documents; some examples:

> Correcting the usage of a term, correcting a recurring error, or moving common content into a shared file.

Reviewer: This is not the beginning of a new sentence.
```suggestion
correcting the usage of a term, correcting a recurring error, or moving common content into a shared file.
```

Submit your proposed changes to the core Quarkus docs by {gh-pull-requests-fork}[creating a pull request] against the `main` branch of the Quarkus repository from your own {gh-about-forks}[repository fork].

Reviews for code and documentation have different (but overlapping) participants.

> To simplify collaborative review, either isolate changes to docs in their PRs

Reviewer 2: One sentence per line.

or ensure that the PR has a single, focused purpose. For example:

- Create a single PR that adds a configuration option for an extension and updates related materials (how-to, reference) to explain the change.
- Create a single PR for related changes to a group of documents; some examples:
Correcting the usage of a term, correcting a recurring error, or moving common content into a shared file.
- If there are extensive code changes and documentation changes,
create a separate PR for the documentation changes and include the relationship in the issue description.

> 

Reviewer 2: Do we want to add a link to https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/blob/main/COMMITTERS.adoc here or in the references section?

Author: Updated. Thanks.
